== Torus SPEC (0.0.3)

(Shamelessly cribbing from the Ring Spec since 2011.)

Torus is definied in terms of handlers, middleware, request maps, and response
maps.


== Handlers

Handlers are Clojurescript functions that take a request map and return a
response map. Handlers should be referentially transparent.


== Middleware

Higher order functions that take one or more handlers and configuration options
and return a new handler with the desired compound behaviour.


== Request Map

A Clojurescript map with the following keys:

:location
  (Required, IPersistentMap)
  A map that always contains the following keys (from js/location):

  :hash
    (String)
    URL hash tag.

  :host
    (String)
    Server hostname and port.

  :hostname
    (String)
    Server domain name or IP address.

  :href
    (String)
    Complete URL.

  :origin
    (String)
    Server protocol and host.

  :pathname
    (String)
    Everything between the :origin and :hash.

  :port
    (Integer)
    Server port number.

  :protocol
    (Keyword)
    :https or :http

:history-state (optional)
  (Optional, Object)
  The state object from js/history.


== Response Map

A Clojurescript map. The keys of the map are processed in the order they
apper below.

:id
  (Required, String)
  The response id. Used to determine whether to use the response :head, :body,
  and :callback. The previous response id is stored in an atom. This value is
  checked before the rest of the response is processed. If the stored value is
  equal to the response id, :body, :head, and :callback are not used. In all
  cases :nodes is still processed.

:title
  (Optional, String)
  The new document title. If blank, :hostname from the request :location is
  used.

:head
  (Optional, Delayed ISeq)
  A delayed sequence of DOM nodes. These nodes are appended to the document
  head. Before this happens the previous children of head which have that class
  are removed.

:content
  (Required, Delayed HTMLElement)
  A delayed node. Used to replace the document body. If the node is not a body
  node it will be wrapped in one. Either way the document ends up with a new
  body node, which means existing listeners are discarded.

:callback
  (Optional, Function)
  A function that is called after :head and :body are processed. It takes one
  argument which is a copy of the response map with :callback, :onremove, and
  :nested removed.

:onremove
  (Optional, Function)
  A function that is called before the content or head nodes associated with
  this response are removed from the document. It takes the same argument as
  the :callback function.

:nested
  (Optional, IPersistentMap)
  A map of element id strings to response maps. Each key is tested against the
  document using document.getElementWithId(key). When there is a match the
  corresponding response map is processed, with the following differences from
  how the parent response map is:
  - :head and :nested are ignored;
  - the :content node replaces the matching document node and copies its id;
  - the :title text sets the title attribute on the :content node
  - the argument to the :callback and :onremove functions does not contain a
    :head key.
